Variable, list, or dictionary   Description
ACCESS_DICTIONARY   Dictionary that pairs keys with doors. See “Adding Access Controls” on page 185 (Chapter 11).
air Air remaining for player. Set to starting value in VARIABLES section.
air_fixed   Set to True when the player has fitted the air canister to the suit. Otherwise, False.
checksum    Used to check data has been entered correctly when typing in the game listing. If you modify the game data, you will need to modify or disable checksum code. Put a # before the assert instructions to disable them.
current_room    Number of the room the player is now in. Set it as the starting room in the VARIABLES section.
energy  Energy remaining for player. Set to starting value in VARIABLES section.
FRIEND1_NAME    A friend’s name, used in descriptions of rooms and objects.
FRIEND2_NAME    A friend’s name, used in descriptions of rooms and objects.
GAME_MAP    Stores the map of how rooms connect to each other. See “Creating the Map Data” on page 60 (Chapter 4).
game_over   Set to True when the game has finished. Otherwise, it should be False.
hazard_data Dictionary containing position and movement information for the moving hazards. See “Adding the Moving Hazards” on page 203 (Chapter 12).
hazard_map  Used to keep track of where moving hazards are in the room the player is now in. Automatically generated. You don’t need to modify this.
HEIGHT  Height of the game window in pixels.
in_my_pockets   List of object numbers for items player is carrying. Set up in the PROPS section to contain the items the player begins the game with.
item_carrying   Object number of the item the player has selected in their inventory.
item_player_is_on   Object number of the item the player is standing on.
items_player_may_carry  List containing the object numbers of items the player can pick up.
items_player_may_stand_on   List containing the object numbers of items the player can walk on.
LANDER_SECTOR   Room number where the Poodle lander is hidden.
LANDER_X    The x-coordinate of where the Poodle lander is hidden.
LANDER_Y    The y-coordinate of where the Poodle lander is hidden.
MAP_HEIGHT  How many rooms tall the map is (see Chapter 4, Figure 4-1 on page 60).
MAP_WIDTH   How many rooms wide the map is (see Chapter 4, Figure 4-1 on page 60).
objects Dictionary containing images and descriptions for all objects in the game. See “Making the Space Station Objects Dictionary” on page 85 (Chapter 5).
outdoor_rooms   A range of the planet surface room numbers (see Chapter 4, Figure 4-1 on page 60).
PILLARS Dictionary containing animation frames for front wall transparency.
PLAYER  Dictionary containing player animation frames.
player_direction    Direction player is facing. Should be left, right, up, or down.
player_frame    Used for the player’s animation frame.
PLAYER_NAME Used in descriptions of objects and messages to the player. Set it as your name in the VARIABLES section.
PLAYER_SHADOW   Dictionary containing shadows for player animation.
player_x    Player’s x position in the room, measured in tiles. Set it as the starting position in the VARIABLES section.
player_y    Player’s y position in the room, measured in tiles. Set it as the starting position in the VARIABLES section.
props   Dictionary containing location of all the moveable objects in the game. See “Adding the Props Information” on page 151 (Chapter 9).
RECIPES List containing ways that objects can be combined to make new objects. See “Combining Objects” on page 177 (Chapter 10).
room_map    Used to remember what’s at each position in the room the player is now in. Automatically generated. You don’t need to modify this.
scenery Dictionary containing data for positioning fixed objects in rooms. See “Understanding the Dictionary for the Scenery Data” on page 97 (Chapter 6).
standard_responses  Dictionary of messages to display when the player uses items that serve no other purpose.
suit_stitched   Set to True when the player has fixed the suit. Otherwise, False.
use_message Text shown to player when they use or try to use an object.
WIDTH   Width of the game window in pixels.
